#summary This page describes how to build OpenNERO from source for a variety of platforms.
#sidebar TableOfContents
----
= Overview =
OpenNERO uses the [http://www.cmake.org/ CMake] cross-platform build system. The general steps are:
 * Install prerequisites as needed.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/opennero/source/checkout Check out the source code].
 * Run [http://www.cmake.org/ CMake].
 * Build.
 * Continue to [RunningOpenNero Running OpenNERO]
 * If you have problems, scroll through the comments on this page - someone might have solved them for you =).
----
= Mac OS X =
== Prerequisites == 
 * Download and install [http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html cmake]
 * Install [http://developer.apple.com/tools/xcode/ Xcode] (optional install on the Mac OS X DVD)
 * Install [http://www.wxpython.org/download.php wxPython]
 * Build and install [http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/release/more/getting_started/unix-variants.html Boost Libraries]
== Steps to build ==
 # (recommended) create a new directory for your build
 # in your build directory, run `cmake -G Xcode /path/to/opennero/checkout`
 # open the resulting OpenNERO.xcodeproja Xcode project file
 # Build OpenNERO using Xcode
----
= Windows =
== Prerequisites ==
 * [http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html cmake]
 * [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/ Microsoft Visual Studio
 * [http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/release/more/getting_started/windows.html build and install Boost]
   * Use the option `--build-type=complete` with the `.\b2 command.
   * Use the option `-jN` with `.\b2`, where N is the number of cores your computer has.
   * Do not use Boost 1.54 if you are building with Visual Studio 2013 Preview - use 1.53 instead.
 * [http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.2/ Latest Python 2.7.x with source]
 * [http://www.wxpython.org/download.php wxPython]
 * Add python.exe to the Path variable (Control Panel -> System -> Environment Variables)
== Steps to build ==
 # Open CMake, specify the source directory (opennero checkout directory) and build directory (another directory). Choose 'Suppress dev Warnings -WnoDev' from the Options menu. Click the Configure button twice, then click the Generate button.
 # Open the OpenNERO.sln solution file and build OpenNERO using Visual Studio.
 # To run from within Visual Studio, set OpenNERO as startup project. Also set the working directory of OpenNERO for debugging to `$(TargetDir)` (right mouse click on OpenNERO, select properties, debugging).
----
= Linux =
== Summary ==
 # `mkdir opennero`
 # `cd opennero`
 # `svn checkout http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/trunk`
 # `mkdir build-of-trunk`
 # `cd build-of-trunk`
 # `cmake ../trunk`
 # `make`
 # `cd dist`
 # `./OpenNERO`
== Prerequisites ==
Install the following packages (using `sudo apt-get install`)
=== Required ===
==== Ubuntu DEB Packages ====
 * libboost-all-dev
 * libx11-dev
 * libxxf86vm-dev
 * libgl-dev
 * libz-dev
 * maven
 * flex
 * bison
==== or, Fedora RPMs ====
 * boost-devel
 * libX11-devel
 * libXxf86vm-devel
 * mesa-libGL-devel
 * zlib-devel
=== Optional ===
 * python-matplotlib
 * python-wxgtk
== Steps to build ==
 # (recommended) create a new directory for your build
 # in your build directory, run `cmake /path/to/opennero/checkout`
   * If you are having trouble building on Ubuntu 13.04, try adding the following to your cmake command line:
{{{
$ cmake -DPYTHON_LIBRARY=/usr/lib/libpython2.7.so -DPYTHON_INCLUDE_DIR=/usr/include/python2.7 ...
}}}
This will force cmake to use python2.7 libraries instead of python3, which is necessary because boost is compiled against python2.7
 # building using make: `make`
== To run ==
 # `cd dist`
 # `./OpenNERO`
== Update build ==
 # `cd trunk`
 # `svn update`
 # `cd ..\build-of-trunk`
 # `make`