#summary This page describes how to build OpenNERO from source for Windows.
#sidebar TableOfContents

*Note:* As of Sep 2014, this article is outdated.  If you manage to build OpenNERO on Windows, feel free to share your experience in the comments section.

= Windows =

== Prerequisites ==

 * [http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html cmake]
 * [http://www.microsoft.com/visualstudio/ Microsoft Visual Studio
 * [http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/release/more/getting_started/windows.html build and install Boost]
   * Use the option `--build-type=complete` with the `.\b2 command.
   * Use the option `-jN` with `.\b2`, where N is the number of cores your computer has.
   * Do not use Boost 1.54 if you are building with Visual Studio 2013 Preview - use 1.53 instead.
 * [http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.2/ Latest Python 2.7.x with source]
 * [http://www.wxpython.org/download.php wxPython]
 * Install a Java Runtime Environment (JRE)
 * Add python.exe to the Path variable (Control Panel -> System -> Environment Variables)

== Steps to build ==

 # Open CMake, specify the source directory (opennero checkout directory) and build directory (another directory). Choose 'Suppress dev Warnings -WnoDev' from the Options menu. Click the Configure button twice, then click the Generate button.
 # Open the OpenNERO.sln solution file and build OpenNERO using Visual Studio.
 # To run from within Visual Studio, set OpenNERO as startup project. Also set the working directory of OpenNERO for debugging to `$(TargetDir)` (right mouse click on OpenNERO, select properties, debugging).