#summary InstallVision
#sidebar TableOfContents

==The Vision Environment==

To run the demo,

  # [InstallVision Download the Vision Environment] for OpenNERO.
  # Start the Vision Experiment.
  # Click the First Person Agent button.
  # Position your agent with the W, A, S, and D keys.
  # When you have an object in sight, press the Snapshot button.

Each snapshot will automatically be processed by OpenNERO and the results will be displayed in a four-panel window. Note that the default version included in the demo is a faster, more efficient implementation of the canonical edge detection algorithm; it should complete its analysis in about 10 seconds and requires `numpy` and `scipy` to be installed. If you prefer to use the slower, more canonical implementation of the edge detection algorithm, or if you are not able to install `numpy` or `scipy`, you can checkout the cs343vision2 branch.
= Downloading the Vision Environment =

Follow the steps below to download and install the vision environment in OpenNERO.

Download the <a href="http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/risto/cs343/private/hw5/Hw5.tar.gz">vision environment files</a>.  Extract the archive inside your OpenNERO installation folder.

==2. Install the Python Imaging Library==

We are going to be using the <a href="http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/">Python Imaging Library</a> to help with loading, saving, and manipulating the images we take in OpenNERO. If you do not already have it installed, see the [InstallPIL install instructions].

==3. Install `numpy` and `scipy`==

You will need to <a href="http://www.scipy.org/Installing_SciPy">install numpy and scipy</a> if you are not already able to import them.