#summary NERO Machine Learning Tournament
#labels Exercise
#sidebar TableOfContents

WARNING: THIS PAGE IS STILL UNDER (MINOR) CONSTRUCTION

= NERO Machine Learning Tournament =

In this exercise, you will use either the rtNEAT algorithm or
Reinforcement Learning to train a team OpenNero agents to defeat your
opponents in battle. We will run a tournament in class, where we will
pit the teams against each other in an apocalyptic battle for world
domination (or something). Follow the steps below, unless of course
you're comfortable getting destroyed by your opponents who did.


==1. Install the OpenNERO Platform==

OpenNERO runs on Linux, Mac OSX, and Windows platforms. In order to
install it on your system, you can either:

  * Install it on your own machine by downloading one of the
    [http://code.google.com/p/opennero/downloads/list prebuilt
    binaries]. Note that they do require that you have some additional
    software installed, such as Python and wxPython (see instructions
    on the [http://code.google.com/p/opennero/downloads/list download page]).
  * [BuildingOpenNero Build OpenNERO] on your own machine using the
    source code.

If you build from the source, you can modify and extend the game
yourself (for the tournament, or otherwise), but no such modifications
are necessary to train and enter the tournament.

==2. Train Your Team==

The game is described in detail in the [NeroGame NERO game] page,
including specific instructions on how you can train your team.

==3. Submit Your Team to the Tournament==

After you are satisfied with your team, you'll save it into a file.
That file is about 20MB, but compresses very well, downto about 2MB.
Please use one of the following methods to compress it:

On Linux, say gzip <file.pop>

On Mac OSX...

On Windows...

After you have compressed the file, go to [http this webpage] to
submit it. The tournament is intended for participants in the Stanford
Online AI course, so you need to have a login to the class website to
submit.

The deadline for submission is XXX in CST.

==4. Eagerly Await the Results==

We will collect all submissions after the deadline and run a
double-elimination tournament on them. The tournament will be seeded
randomly.  The standard NERO Battle environment will be used for the
games; because the environment is symmetric, each team can be assigned
as Red or Blue randomly without providing an advantage to either one.
Each game will be run until one team is eliminated, or when a timeout
of 5 minutes is reached, in which case the team that has more hits
will win. In case of a tie, the winner will be chosen randomly, except
for the final game, which will be repeated until there is an actual
winner based on hits.

The tournament results will be posted a few days after the deadline on
[http this website], including videos of the final games. The teams
will be identified by the name provided in the submission.

==Debugging, Discussion, and Bugs==

If you run into any bugs in your program, you can find the error log file for OpenNERO at one of the following locations:

  * *Linux or Mac:* `~/.opennero/nero_log.txt`
  * *Windows:* `"AppData\Local\OpenNERO\nero_log.txt"` or `"Local
  Settings\Application Data\OpenNERO\nero_log.txt"` depending on the
  version of Windows you have.

We encourage discussion of topics related to the tournament, and have
established [http this forum] to support it. Questions can be posted
in the forum, and answered by anyone on the forum, hopefully making it
easier to figure out issues as they happen.

OpenNERO is academic software and under (hyper)active development. It
is possible that you will come across a bug in it, or a feature that
should be implemented. If so, please report it [http here], so that
everyone can see it and track it (please first check whether it has
already been reported).

In order to provide the best experience for everyone, we may release
bug fixes before the tournament submissions are due. If so, we'll
identify them here:

(Nothing yet to report).