#summary OpenNERO Project Home
#sidebar TableOfContents

----

==About OpenNERO==
[http://nn.cs.utexas.edu/?opennero OpenNERO] is an open source software platform designed for research and education in Artificial Intelligence. The project is based on the [http://www.nerogame.org/ Neuro-Evolving Robotic Operatives (NERO) game] developed by graduate and undergraduate students at the  [http://nn.cs.utexas.edu/ Neural Networks Research Group] and [http://www.cs.utexas.edu/ Department of Computer Science] at the [http://www.utexas.edu/ University of Texas at Austin].

In particular, OpenNERO has been used to implement several demos and exercises for the Russell and Norvig's textbook [http://aima.cs.berkeley.edu/ Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach].  These demos and exercises illustrate AI methods such as brute-force search, heuristic search, scripting, reinforcement learning, and evolutionary computation, and AI problems such as maze running, vacuuming, and robotic battle. The methods and problems are implemented in three different environments (or "mods"), as described below.

More environments, problems, and methods, as well as demos and exercises illustrating them, will be added in the future. The current ones are intended to serve as a starting point on which new ones can be built, by us, but also by the community at large. If you'd like to contribute something you have built, you can reach project managers at [mailto:opennero-questions@googlegroups.com opennero-questions].

----

==Getting started==

You can download a binary build of OpenNERO for your platform, or checkout the current source and [BuildingOpenNero build it yourself]. You can then [OpenNeroDemos try out the various demos], [OpenNeroExercises work on the exercises], or explore the various mods on your own.

 * [BuildingOpenNero Building from source]
 * [OpenNeroDemos Demos]
   * [DepthFirstSearch Depth First Search]
   * [AStarSearch `A*` Search]
   * [QLearning Q-Learning]
   * [SarsaLearning Sarsa(λ)]
   * [NeuroEvolution Neuroevolution]
   * [CoEvolution Co-evolution]
   * [HumanSolutions Human-generated solutions]
 * [OpenNeroExercises Exercises]
 * [RunningOpenNero Running]
   * [MazeMod The Maze mod] <br/> [http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-maze.png http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-maze.tiny.png]
   * [RoombaMod The Roomba mod] <br> [http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-roomba.png http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-roomba.tiny.png]
   * [NeroMod The NERO mod] <br> [http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-nero.png http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-nero.tiny.png]

----

==Components==

OpenNERO is built using open source components, including:
 * [http://irrlicht.sourceforge.net/ Irrlicht 3D Engine] - released under the [http://irrlicht.sourceforge.net/license.html Irrlicht Engine License]
 * [http://www.boost.org/ Boost C++ libraries] - governed by the [http://www.boost.org/users/license.html Boost Software License]
 * [http://www.python.org/ Python scripting language] - governed by the [http://www.python.org/psf/license/ Python License]
 * [http://nn.cs.utexas.edu/?rtNEAT rtNEAT algorithm] - created by [http://www.cs.ucf.edu/~kstanley/ Ken Stanley] and [http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~risto/ Risto Miikkulainen] at UT Austin.

----

==Contributors==

There are many people who have contributed and continue to contribute to OpenNERO. Here is a list in progress.
 * [http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~ikarpov/ Igor V. Karpov]
 * [http://www.jbsheblak.com/ John B. Sheblak]
 * Adam Dziuk
 * Minh Pham
 * Dan Lessin
 * Members of the [http://nn.cs.utexas.edu/ Neural Networks Research Group] at UT Austin
 * Students and alumni of the [http://web3.cns.utexas.edu/fri/ Freshman Research Initiative] Computational Intelligence and Game Design stream.

----
