#summary This page describes how to run OpenNERO starting from the binary distribution or from a custom build.
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Prerequisites =

In order to run OpenNERO on your platform you may need to install Python and wxPython.

== On Mac OS X ==

Python is usually already installed on Mac OS X. To check if you have a suitable version of Python and wxPython installed, start Terminal, and type in `python`.

If you get a python `>>>` prompt, check to see if you have wxPython by typing in:
{{{
import wx
}}}
If everything is working correctly, you should not see any errors when doing this.

On 64-bit versions of Mac OS X, you may also need to tell Python to run in 32-bit mode by default (from Terminal):
{{{
defaults write com.apple.versioner.python Prefer-32-Bit -bool yes
}}}

== On Windows, ==

To check if you have a suitable version of Python and wxPython installed, start Command Prompt (cmd), and type in `python`. If you get a python `>>>` prompt, check to see if you have wxPython by typing in:
{{{
import wx
}}}
If everything is working correctly, you should not see any errors when doing this.

  # Download and install [http://www.python.org/getit/ Python 2.7.2 (win32)]
  # Download and install [http://www.wxpython.org/download.php wxPython] (required for the NERO mod).
  # Add the directory with python.exe (usually C:\Python27) to your PATH environment variable.
    * Open Control Panel
    * Search for "Set System Environment Variables" or open the Advanced tab of System Properties.
    * Edit the "Path" variable value to include the location of your python.exe.

== On Linux, ==

If you do not have python installed, install it using your package manager. To do so on Ubuntu Linux, use:

{{{
sudo apt-get install python python-wxgtk2.8
}}}

= Introduction =

OpenNERO consists of the core program and a collection of one or more *mods*. A mod is a logically separate unit of OpenNERO that can be a custom game, an AI experiment, or both. Each mod is defined as a directory next to the application. When you start OpenNERO, it shows a menu with existing mods and an option to exit. Currently, the following mods are included:
  * [MazeMod Maze] - a simple maze world on an island, with search, learning and first-person agents.
  * [BlocksWorldMod Blocks World] - a classic AI problem for planning and natural language understanding.
  * [RoombaMod Roomba] - a messy computer lab which gets cleaner with the help of some cleaning robots.
  * [NeroMod NERO] - an implementation of [http://www.nerogame.org/ Neuro Evolving Robotic Operatives (NERO)], where you can evolve your own team of neural network-driven robots along a variety of fitness criteria.

= Controls =

The controls can be easily redefined, but in general, the following keys should work:

  * *F1* - help (opens the browser to show this page)
  * *A* - move camera left
  * *D* - move camera right
  * *W* - move camera forward
  * *S* - move camera back
  * *Q* - pan camera left
  * *E* - pan camera right
  * *R* - tilt camera up
  * *F* - tilt camera down
  * *space bar* - recenter camera to origin
  * *ESC* - exit the currently running mod
  * *Mouse Scroll* - zoom in or zoom out
  * *Z* - zoom in
  * *C* - zoom out

= The Mods in more detail =

== [MazeMod Maze] ==

[http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-maze.png http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-maze.tiny.png]

== [BlocksWorldMod Blocks World] ==

[http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-blocks.png http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-blocks.tiny.png]

== [RoombaMod Roomba] ==

[http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-roomba.png http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-roomba.tiny.png]


== [NeroMod NERO] ==

[http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-nero.png http://opennero.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/OpenNERO-nero.tiny.png]